Optimizing cluster sizing using a real world benchmark (#597)
zeebe-io/zeebe-chaos: chaos-days/blog/2024-10-14-Optimizing-cluster-sizing-using-a-real-world-benchmark/index.md

---
layout: posts
title:  "Optimizing cluster sizing using a real world benchmark"
date:   2024-10-14
categories: 
  - chaos_experiment 
  - performance
tags:
  - performance
authors: rodrigo
---

# Chaos Day Summary

> Our first goal of this experiment is to use a benchmarks to derive new optimized cluster configuration that can handle at least 100 process instances per 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Our first goal of this experiment is to use a benchmarks to derive new optimized cluster configuration that can handle at least 100 tasks per 
```

| G3-S HA                | CPU Limit | Memory Limit in GB |
|------------------------|-----------|--------------------|
| operate                | 2         | 2                  |
| operate.elasticsearch  | 6         | 6                  |
| optimize               | 2         | 2                  |
| tasklist               | 2         | 2                  |
| zeebe.broker           | 2.88      | 12                 |
| zeebe.gateway          | 0.9       | 0.8                |
| zeebeAnalytics         | 0.4       | 0.45               |
| connectorBridge        | 0.4       | 0.512              |
| **TOTAL**              | **16.58** | **25.762**         |

| G3 - BasePackage HA   | CPU Limit | Memory Limit in GB |
|-----------------------|-----------|--------------------|
| operate               | 1         | 1                  |
| operate.elasticsearch | 3         | 4.5                |
| optimize              | 1         | 1.6                |
| tasklist              | 1         | 1                  |
| zeebe.broker          | 1.5       | 4.5                |
| zeebe.gateway         | 0.6       | 1                  |
| zeebeAnalytics        | 0.2       | 0.3                |

> | connectorBridge       | 0.4       | 1                  |

Reviewer: :wrench: Would remove in both tables, nobody outside of SaaS knows this, it's pretty internal

| Average Backpressure     |      2% |      2% |      3% |      6% |
| Write-to-Import Latency  |     90s |    120s |    150s |    390s |
| Write-to-Process Latency |   140ms |    89ms |   200ms |   160ms |
| Records Processed Rate   |    2500 |    4700 |    7800 |   11400 |
| Records Exported Rate    |    2100 |    3900 |    6500 |    9200 |

This first observations is that the performance scales particularly well by 
just adding more resources to the cluster, particularly for a linear 
increase of the resources the performance as measured by tasks completed 
increases slightly less than linearly (comparing the 1x and 4x task/s we 
get 388% the initial rate).  

This a very good result as it means that we can scale our system linearly 
(at least initially) to handle the expected increase in loads.

Importantly, the backpressure is kept low, and the write-to-import latency 
only increases significantly if we leave the cluster running at max rate 
for long periods of time. For slightly lower rates the write-to-import 
latency is kept in the single digits of seconds or lower tens. This might 
imply that a these sustained max rates, the amount records generated starts 

> to be too much for either elasticSearch or our web apps that import these 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
to be too much for either ElasticSearch or our web apps that import these 
```
